[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
naga manchetti and charlie state
headlines today major health reforms are
unveiled as the government spells out
its plans for the nhs
but there's concern over how it can be
done effectively in the middle of a
pandemic
confusion over whether or not you'll be
able to enjoy
a summer getaway the health secretary
insists he's still off to cornwall
parts of the uk have seen the coldest
night in more than a decade as the big
freeze continues
indeed we've seen temperatures drop
below minus 21 degrees in the last few
hours in parts of scotland i'll give you
a full rundown of how cold it is where
you're waking up this morning
the business is on the brink good
morning the number of companies going
bus
could double this year as the pain of
the pandemic kicks in
i'll speak to three people holding it
together
good morning a nine goal thriller in the
fa cup as
everton edge out spurs 5-4 in extra time
to book their place in the quarterfinals
this place the royal manchester
children's hospital
is like my second home i've been here
more than 50 times because i have
leukemia
ten-year-old huey turns reporter as he
shows us how the hundreds of thousands
of pounds
in his friend freddie raised will be
spent
[Music]
good morning it's thursday the 11th of
february our top story is that the nhs
in england
is facing a major overhaul as the
government sets out how
it plans to shake up the health and
social care system the changes
would see hospitals gp services and
social care providers working together
more
while the role the private sector would
be reduced
here's our health correspondent nick
trigger
the reforms brought in by david
cameron's government were
deeply controversial they were meant to
usher in an era of competition and
innovation
but a white paper to be published later
will begin the process
of unpicking them out will go
requirements on tendering contracts
and instead councils and nhs services
will be told to pool resources
and decision making ministers believe it
will help meet the challenges
of the aging population and rise in
numbers with chronic conditions
those working in the health service said
many of the rules were time-consuming
frustrating and stressful there is a bit
of a risk
we've had a lot of experience
unfortunately of restructuring in
the nhs and while everyone says we hope
it won't cause
a lot of disruption there is a bit of a
risk here
that will have a lot of people
distracted from the job of planning
services for the future
planning the recovery from covet well
indeed actually we're still in kobe
perhaps
even being distracted from from that
nhs and council leaders say changes are
needed
although the local government
association warned social care was still
short of funding and labor questioned
the timing
saying the pandemic was stretching
services to their limits
nick triggle bbc news
we're going to talk to the shadow health
secretary jonathan ashworth just after
seven o'clock and then the health
secretary matt hancock will join us at
half past seven
labour have accused the government of
mixed messages over whether or not
people in the uk will be able to get
away
for a summer holiday the transport
secretary has warned that no one should
be booking trips at home or abroad
last night the health secretary told
some mps that he'd already booked his
family's getaway
and that he is optimistic about the
summer charlotte wright has more
in the depths of a winter lockdown many
of us are hankering for moments like
these
optimistic as the vaccination rollout
continues
but sunnier climbs might be even further
than we'd hoped
the latest message from one government
minister summer holidays are on hold
at home or away please don't go ahead
and book holidays for something which
at this stage is illegal to actually go
and do whether it's here or
abroad and then you know further down
the line
i simply don't know the answer to the
question of you know where we'll be up
to
uh this summer but despite that warning
some of his colleagues have already made
plans
i'm going to call mall and i
you know i've said before i think we're
going to have a great british summer
and it's a claim the health secretary
stood by just hours after the transport
secretary told us not to book
trips matt hancock repeated his plans to
head to the south
west during a video call with back bench
mps
at around the same time though speaking
to the nation
the prime minister was sounding less
certain as everybody knows
it's currently illegal to go on holiday
that's the state of play at the moment
we're looking at the data
every day i'm afraid it is just uh too
early for people to
uh be certain about uh what we'll be
able to do this summer
there are concerns in the travel
industry about the financial impact of
losing another summer
frustration perhaps too among those
eager for something to look forward to
but with the pandemic still raging there
are as yet
no guarantees from the government
charlotte wright bbc news
there have been calls for an extension
of the stamp duty holiday next month's
budget as buyers and sellers face delays
in completing deals the popularity of
the concession combined with
covert restrictions have slowed the
process of property sales leading to
fears that many
may not be completed before the stamp
duty holiday ends
in march democrat prosecutors in donald
trump's impeachment trial
have been showing new footage of the
attack on capitol hill they've accused
mr trump of acting as
inciter in chief in the run-up to the
violence the former president's lawyers
deny the claims
our washington correspondent barbara
plett usher has more
democrats used chilling new security
video to reconstruct what happened
during the riot
forcing senators to relive that
traumatic day
this was a key part of a sweeping
narrative against the former president
laid out by the prosecution donald trump
surrendered his role as
commander-in-chief
and became the insider in chief
of a dangerous insurrection and to use a
favorite
term that all of you people really came
up with
we will stop the steal democrats argued
that mr trump spent months constructing
a big lie
to make his supporters believe the
election was stolen
and he used fighting words when he knew
some of them were armed and would fight
donald trump over many months cultivated
violence praised it and then when he saw
the violence his
supporters were capable of he channeled
it
to his big wild historic
event the videos showed how close the
mob got to officials
the former vice president mike pence
being rushed to safety
senator mitt romney turning around in
his tracks
it was a compelling case told with
emotional appeal
and one that touched hearts in the
senate although not necessarily minds
many republican senators seem unwilling
to be convinced that donald trump is
guilty
but the democrats are also aiming at a
broader audience watching from home
hoping to hold mr trump to account in
the court of public appeal
barbara platt-usher bbc news washington
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc
news